## Inspiration
The world of finance is constantly evolving and navigating it can be challenging, especially during times of market volatility. The uncertainty it creates can leave individual investors and organizations feeling overwhelmed and helpless. However, with the right tools and resources, it is possible to not only weather the storms of the market, but also use these moments to their advantage. That's why we are inspired to build a simple and user-friendly interface that empowers investors to understand the impact of market volatility and make informed decisions. By doing so, we aim to create a more confident and knowledgeable investment community that can thrive in any market conditions.
## What it does
We broadly categorized the investment plan into three different time intervals: past, present and future. The past time frame comprised the graph and trends based on previous market values of the investment, and simultaneously generating the sharpe ratio, the Alpha (α) ,used in finance as a measure of performance, is the excess return of an investment relative to the return of a benchmark index and the beta value, a measure of the volatility, or systematic risk, of a security or portfolio in comparison to the market as a whole. Next, for the present time frame, we looked for the current market value and prestige of the investment company by analyzing articles and classifying them as good or bad depending upon their sentimental analysis. This establishes a credible and reliable impression of the stock or the investment they are looking at and eases their decision process. Finally, for the future time frame, it generates a simulated graph that predicts what the future values might look like, based on several factors such as total return, price-to-earnings ratio, dividend yield and earnings growth.
## How we built it
We used python and its libraries, pandas and numpy to collect data, that primarily constituted of the history of the investment and its performance in the past, and the time frame can be adjusted as per the user's choice. We fetched this data from Yahoo's finance API. We used it to plot graphs and a trend line for the stock investment of user's choice. Yes, we do provide the user with a choice to choose a company or a stock. This provides the user with more flexible and interactive options to make an informed decision. We also generate the sharpe ratio, the alpha and the beta value based on this data. As for the current time frame, we used the articles available on Yahoo.com and classified them as good or bad articles. We achieved this by sentimental analysis of the articles. We also used cosign similarity to verify if the articles chosen are actually relevant to the company the user chose. For the Future time frame, we used Monte Carlo simulation that defined a domain of possible inputs, generated inputs randomly from a probability distribution over the domain and performed a deterministic computation on the inputs. It finally displayed a graph that estimates how the stock or investment would perform in future. We used React and node.js to build the frontend and backend of the website.
## Challenges we ran into
We wanted to offer some projections to showcase the performance of any particular stock when we finally ran into the Monte Carlo Graph. None of us is majoring in Finance, so it was challenging to understand it at first. Two of us delved deeper into research while the other two kept designing and programming the other parts of the program.
## Accomplishments that we're proud of
Came up with a good understanding of Investment concepts in a short time span to come up with an idea. Designed a model that implemented some important aspects of investment planning. Also, we were able to build a rest API and could connect the data and graphs compiled on Python into a fully functional website. And, competing with beginner hackers was challenging at first, but we were able to coexist and cooperate without interruptions.
## What we learned
We learnt investment planning and risk management, and ways to implement it.
## What's next for SimulateInvest
We will try to implement Retirement plans and personal finance planning on an individual level.
